So we know that we have a bucket.
So let's go ahead and grab that bucket.
And like I said, just copy pasta.
Pretty simple.
We're gonna paste this in.
Then we're gonna start editing it.
So we're gonna say, okay, well,
we know that we wanna create an s3 bucket,
sorry AWS s3.
And then what we're gonna do is is we're
gonna import AWS from Pulumi AWS, right?
And then now that we've got that imported,
I don't know why that's doing that,
we can start customizing it a bit, right?
This is where our opinionation
start to really play, right?
So because we have a component
that we are now creating,
technically we can give it options, right?
And one of the first options,
we're gonna give it,
is we're gonna give it a name,
a name of the bucket.
However, we're not gonna do it here.
And you might be like, well, why?
It's literally right there?
Because we talked about using
a standardized simple interface.
So we're literally going
to create an interface.
We're gonna say type FM bucket,
and then we're going to
create a type for
that resource essentially, right?
And so, and you can say like options if
you wanted to or something like that,
I guess args might be a better one here.
But the main point is,
is that we're going to create and
use this as what is now going
to be known as our DSL.
All right, this is going to be
our domain specific language for
creating buckets so
that developers never, ever touch this.
No, never again.
Sorry, no, never again.
So what do we need, right?
Well, we know that we need a name,
so let's give it a name, right?
So string, but maybe there's some other
stuff there that could be interesting,
maybe like product, right?
Where we can say all right,
nope, sorry, not production,
product where we can say like, okay,
what we'll actually do is we'll use
this naming convention where
the product is first, right?
And then the name is second.
So that when we do other things we know
okay, well, this is the product, right?
And then the name under that product.
And if we've wanted to if we
really said like, okay, well,
buckets are always attached to services.
Then we could also say, service,
if we wanted to, and what's great about
typescript is if we had a different type,
say for example, we said that not only do
we have an FM bucket, but maybe we have
like an FM, something else, right?
We could just say FM service.
And now because it's typed,
we have complete control over that domain
specific language and
what developers are using, right?
So they literally could just say,
here's my service,
give this bucket to this service.
For now we're just gonna use name and I'll
actually go with the product one because I
really liked that as an example here.
So then what we're going to do is,
we're going to go here and
we're just gonna change this to args.
And then we'll say FM
bucket args like that.
These options are actually Pulumi options.
If we look at one of the buckets here,
you're gonna notice that it says
under the definition of it, right?
Which we're looking at here, you're going
to notice that it actually has ops with
a question mark, and then it says
component or custom resource options.
This variable is passed
through every component.
The reason for that is because these
are the generic options in Pulumi, that
make it so that you can depend on things,
you can make things parent of things.
So it's always good to have these options
available to you, because you can do
hierarchical changes if you need to, where
you wanna say, this component actually
belongs to this parent, or so forth and
so on, we'll show you that in a second.
But for now, we just wanna type it.
We just wanna make sure that
it has some type of type.
So I'm just gonna say
Pulumi.customresource options and
that will just make sure that
we have that to use there.
Now that we've got this, we can
actually start talking about how we're
going to standardize,
how we create buckets a bit further.
And the next one is going to be
the naming convention, right?
What's great about having this in code is,
is now I can literally create a convention
right here where I can say you know what?
Let's say that this is the name actually.
And what we're gonna do is
is we're going to say args,
sorry, args.name and
before that, args.product.
There's our naming convention, right?
And then what I can do is,
is instead of having this is, well,
I guess it's gonna use that anyways, but
basically anywhere where name is used,
I can now use that as a standardized name,
for any of my other services.
And again, remember because this is code,
I can make a function that
says generate bucket name.
And then I can do things like okay,
like exactly like we did before,
name, product, right?
And then if I wanted to,
I could then come back down here and
just say, all right, well,
let's even standardize that and
let's say generate bucket name,
args name, args product, right?
And then you could test that.
Now we have testing in our automation so
that we can confirm that things
are getting named the way
that they should be, right?
Again, you can do a lot of this stuff
in terraform or other things, but
when we look at what you can actually do
with a programming language when it comes
to automation, it's way more powerful.
So yeah, so we're gonna create our naming
convention here, product name, right?
And then we're gonna go down here.
And what we're gonna do is we're gonna
actually make a small change to this.
And we're gonna say that
this is just args.name.
And you might say, well, why are we
following a standardization here?
But we're not doing it here, right?
So whenever you create a Pulumi resource,
there's a couple of identifiers
that are created with it.
The main two are the URL or URN of
the resource and Amazon or whatever.
But its also got its own URN,
which is called a Pulumi URN.
If I go to back here,
and I do Pulumi stack
There's a way of showing resources,
I just can't remember exactly
what the command is, that's you.
There's no resources, okay, that's why.
Let me go to something that actually has
resources, so Pulumi Github for example,
and then we'll go here and
we'll say, secrets.
Pulumi stack-U.
So when I do this,
what we're gonna see is that,
it's gonna output a ton of
what we see as URNs, right?
And that's actually what
we're kind of seeing is being
started here if we go back to our bucket,
right?
Package, index, FM bucket and if we go
here you'll see URN pulling me did it.
So it's totally up to you but
when we create the component it
gets a standardized name meaning
technically inside of that
component you can either reuse
the same name if you want.
But, the reason why I don't do this is,
in the off chance in the future
say you need two buckets, right?
And you use the same
name here as you do here,
you're gonna have a conflict later, right?
So, one of the ways I'd avoid that is
I say that the component is what has
the standardized name.
And then anything else kind of just uses
the main arg name passed down to it.
But we still use the standardized name
in specific places where we want to.
The nice thing about that standardized
name is that it's like a fully qualified
domain.
If there's a place in our automation where
we want that fully qualified domain say,
you create a bucket.
Do you want your bucket to
just be called food bar?
Or would you rather at least be
called front end masters food bar,
[LAUGH] you know what I mean?
And that's what I mean by you can choose
when you want to lean on this automation
or this standardization and
when you don't.
Another, solution here would just be to
find a completely different name to call
the bucket, for now, it's fine,
we'll leave it the way it is.
What we're gonna do is, we're going to
standardize the bucket name in Amazon
though, that is something we
definitely want to do, right?
And so, if we go, I believe,
if I'm not mistaken,
I believe it's a bucket, yeah.
A bucket,
I don't know why they don't just use name.
But if we wanna actually give
the bucket a specific name so
that we make sure we're giving it that
standardized name when it gets created,
then we simply pass that standardized
name to the bucket, right?
And so again, in Pulumi,
we'll just see args.name as the resource.
But in Amazon, when it gets created,
we'll actually get the full resource name,
right?
And so
if we wanted to make this a little easier,
we could say that this is
the resource name, right?
And then this is just
the normal name itself.
And here's another nice
little fun thing as well,
is you'll notice that we
have environment here.
We can even standardize environments,
right?
Because we're using Pulumi, we could
simply say const stack equals getStack.
Stack, yeah, getStack.
And what happens now is
Pulumi will go out and
figure out the name of your stack,
and then once it does that,
it will bring that as available as
an option or as a value to you.
So if I really want it, to get super
standardized with this, I can even go
further and I can say you know what I want
my buckets to actually their names, right?
To have their own convention as well,
right?
Well, where I can say like
const bucket equals, and
what we're gonna do is we're literally
gonna take the resource name, and
we're just gonna append
the stack at the end.
So that now when we
create buckets in Amazon,
we simply use that new standard,
and we can have that there as well.
Oops, let me call this bucket name.
And to make this even simpler,
we could also do this.
Put the stack here, and instead of
having this be the bucket name, well,
the name in this case is probably
fine because we want them to match.
Another thing you probably could
do is just get rid of that,
don't really need name twice or
hitting their one.
So, it's up to you.
But having the tag for the environment
at least would also be super nice,
if you're feeling like search to tags and
stuff like that.
Again, it's totally up to you.
If you find yourself in a scenario where
you just wanna use the resource name,
you can do that.
If you wanna use the bucket name
with the resource name in the stack,
you can do that, right?
But the main point of what I'm
showing you is just simply,
these are the steps to automation
that we're trying to take, right?
So now that we've created this very simple
bucket, the next thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna actually add a few
more opinions about it, right?
So what are those gonna be?
Well, first off, we're gonna wanna make
sure that we have this bucket completely
locked off from the rest of the world,
right?
And so to do that, we actually wanna add
some bucket policies, public access,
here we go.
Yeah.
So what is one thing that you normally
wanna make sure is on
when you create a bucket?
[LAUGH] I'll give you a hint,
it's in blue.
You wanna block public
access at all costs, right?
And you know what would be even better if
you could walk into your SEC ops team and
tell them that that's how
it works by default, right?
This is the power of DevOps and
automation.
So what we're gonna do is is we're
literally gonna solve that problem simply
by saying all right, well tell you what,
we will add a policy to every bucket.
And we will just make sure that
whenever we create a bucket,
we also have that access block there too,
right?
And so we can do this, or
we can say args.name again, right?
And here's what's neat.
We're using variables, right?
Pulumi knows about its own types and
things like that.
So we can even just now use our
bucket just like we would with any
other automation variable and
then get the ID from it, right?
And so you'll see here that
now our public access block,
this block is set up to our bucket,
and we block public ACLs,
public policy, ignore and
so forth and so on, right?
This is a little closer to like
a standardized bucket, right?
We are only telling it the name and
product, and out of the box,
we get a bucket.
It's ACL set to private,
as well as making sure that any public
access blocks are also removed.